Castonguay, L. A. and A. K. Rappe (1992). "Ziegler-Natta catalysis. A theoretical study of the isotactic polymerization of propylene." Journal of the American Chemical Society 114(14): 5832-5842.
	
Chung, T. C. and D. Rhubright (1991). "Synthesis of functionalized polypropylene." Macromolecules 24(4): 970-972.
	
De Rosa, C., et al. (2004). "Comparison between Polymorphic Behaviors of Ziegler−Natta and Metallocene-Made Isotactic Polypropylene:  The Role of the Distribution of Defects in the Polymer Chains." Macromolecules 37(4): 1441-1454.
	
Giavarini, C., et al. (1996). "Production of stable polypropylene-modified bitumens." Fuel 75(6): 681-686.
	The use of polypropylene polymers and copolymers as modifiers for road bitumens appears promising. The problem of stability during storage for long periods at high temperatures can be solved by adding phosphorus compounds, especially polyphosphoric acid, which changes the bitumen structure from sol to gel. It is demonstrated that the stability of polymer-modified bitumens depends not only on the difference in density and viscosity between bitumen and polymer but also on bitumen structure.

Guidetti, G. P., et al. (1996). "The use of polypropylene in pipeline coatings." Progress in Organic Coatings 27(1): 79-85.
	Despite the fact that the pipeline coating represents only about 5% of the total cost, the choice of the most effective coating is a key point to guarantee the life of the installed pipelines. Since the eighties, polypropylene copolymer coatings have been used for the protection of the external surface of on-shore and off shore pipelines. Polypropylene is one of the most suitable coatings when high mechanical properties (impact resistance, penetration resistance, etc.) and/or heat resistance are required. Polypropylene has also been used in ordinary pipelines giving advantages compared with the standard coatings, e.g. fusion bonded epoxy resin, coal tar enamel and polyethylene. New applications for polypropylene copolymers such as pipeline coatings have recently been developed, these include an insulating coating obtained with foamed polypropylene and an internal coating obtained by spraying a polypropylene adhesive powder.

Jeon, C., et al. (2019). "Synthesis of Polypropylene via Catalytic Deoxygenation of Poly(methyl acrylate)." ACS Macro Letters 8(9): 1172-1178.
	
Kakooei, S., et al. (2012). "The effects of polypropylene fibers on the properties of reinforced concrete structures." Construction and Building Materials 27(1): 73-77.
	In this study, the results of polypropylene fibers reinforced concrete properties have been presented. The compressive strength, permeability and electric resistivity of concrete samples were studied. The concrete samples were made with different fibers amounts from 0 to 2kgm−3. Also, the samples fabricated with coral aggregate and siliceous aggregate were examined and compared. The samples with added polypropylene fibers of 1.5kgm−3 showed better results in comparison with the others. Moreover, coral aggregate concrete showed less electric resistivity and less compressive strength in comparison with samples fabricated of siliceous aggregates. It is concluded that the coral aggregates are not suitable for making concrete or using in concrete structures in the onshore atmosphere.

Liu, H., et al. (2010). "1,3-Propanediol and its copolymers: Research, development and industrialization." Biotechnology Journal 5(11): 1137-1148.
	Abstract 1,3-Propanediol (PDO), is now taking the transition from a traditional ?specialty chemical? to a ?commodity chemical?. The market for PDO is growing rapidly as the technology develops. With the advancing PDO production technology, polytrimethylene terephthalate (PTT) as a new type of polyester has been applied in carpet and textile fibers, monofilaments, films, and nonwoven fabrics, and in the engineering thermoplastics area, because PTT has unique properties compared to other polymers such as polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polybutylene terephthalate (PBT). Responding to the environmental and sustainability factors, one- or two-step fermentation technology for PDO production has attracted people's attention. A novel flexible process for PDO production by using aerobic fermentation from glycerol or glucose has been developed and demonstrated with a facility capacity of 4000 t/year in a pilot plant. By using engineered Escherichia coli, 135 g/L PDO was obtained with glucose as feedstock. Since the bio-process of PDO production consumes 40% less energy and reduces greenhouse gas emissions by 20% versus petroleum-based propanediol, the bio-based PTT is more environmentally friendly and sustainable compared with the fossil fuel-based polymers, which made PTT more attractive with good prospects for the future.

Mei, G., et al. (2009). "Recent Technical Advances in Polypropylene." Journal of Plastic Film & Sheeting 25(2): 95-113.
	The Spherizone process technology, which is based on a multizone circulating reactor (MZCR), represents a significant innovation in polypropylene (PP) production. In comparison to traditional multi-step technologies, the MZCR provides a step change in the polymer homogeneity of the final product, obtained by continuously circulating the growing polymeric granules between two interrelated zones where different gas-phase compositions are realized. In addition to traditional Z-N catalysts, metallocene catalysts are also being introduced in PP manufacture: single-site catalysts allow differentiated products with outstanding property combinations. Due to its versatility and sustainability, PP continues to be utilized in a large range of applications. Innovative polymer structures featuring diverse comonomers exhibit improved properties (i.e., stiffness-impact balance, aesthetics, transparency, processability), which reinforce the capability of PP to replace traditional materials such as wood, paper, glass, and metals, as well as standard polymer products.

Murata, K., et al. (2002). "Basic study on a continuous flow reactor for thermal degradation of polymers." Journal of Analytical and Applied Pyrolysis 65(1): 71-90.
	A continuous flow reactor for thermal degradation of polymer such as polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP) and polystyrene (PS) was operated at the feed rate of 0–1.5 kg h−1 in order to investigate the characteristics of the continuous flow operation and the thermal degradation behavior of polymers. Rate studies on thermal degradation of polymers were made at various temperatures and under a steady state. The activation energies, calculated on the basis of the rate of volatilization, were 221, 216 and 208 kJ mol−1 for thermal degradation of PE, PP and PS, respectively. These activation energies indicate that a chemical reaction takes a role of rate controlling step in this reactor system. By continuous flow operation, polymers were converted to the liquid product with high yield of 93.6–96.2, 96.1–99.1 and 99.9 wt.% for PE, PP and PS. The liquid products consisted of a wide spectrum of hydrocarbons distributed C4–C30. Thermal degradation by continuous flow operation is a suitable technique for converting plastic polymers into liquid hydrocarbons which could be used as feed stock materials. Based on the observed information, a macroscopic mechanism was proposed. The thermal degradation of polymers consists of two distinct reactions which simultaneously occur in the reactor. One is a random scission of links which causes a molecular weight reduction of the raw polymer, and the other is a chain-end scission of CC bonds, which causes the generation of the volatile product. The chain-end scission takes a place at the gas–liquid interface in the working reactor.

Pang, X., et al. (2010). "Polylactic acid (PLA): Research, development and industrialization." Biotechnology Journal 5(11): 1125-1136.
	Abstract Polylactide (PLA) is a biodegradable, aliphatic polyester derived from lactic acid. It has similar mechanical properties to polyethylene terephthalate, but has a significantly lower maximum continuous use temperature. PLA products can be recycled after use either by remelting and processing the material a second time or by hydrolyzing to lactic acid, the basic chemical. In this review, the technologies for polymerization of the lactic acid and the comparison of physical, thermal and mechanical properties, biodegradability, and biocompatibility of the PLA and copolymers with other similar polymers are described.

Xu, J. and B.-H. Guo (2010). "Poly(butylene succinate) and its copolymers: Research, development and industrialization." Biotechnology Journal 5(11): 1149-1163.
	Abstract Poly(butylene succinate) (PBS) and its copolymers are a family of biodegradable polymers with excellent biodegradability, thermoplastic processability and balanced mechanical properties. In this article, production of the monomers succinic acid and butanediol, synthesis, processing and properties of PBS and its copolymers are reviewed. The physical properties and biodegradation rate of PBS materials can be varied in a wide range through copolymerization with different types and various contents of monomers. PBS has a wide temperature window for thermoplastic processing, which makes the resin suitable for extrusion, injection molding, thermoforming and film blowing. Finally, we summarized industrialization and applications of PBS.

